VIDEO DETAILS by ESA
Title The Sun’s fluffy corona in exquisite detail
Released: 02/05/2024
Length 00:00:48
Language English
Footage Type Close-up
Copyright ESA & NASA/Solar Orbiter/EUI Team

Description:
This otherworldly, ever-changing landscape is what the Sun looks like up close. ESA's Solar Orbiter filmed the transition from the Sun's lower atmosphere to the much hotter outer corona. The hair-like structures are made of charged gas (plasma), following magnetic field lines emerging from the Sun's interior.

The brightest regions are around one million degrees Celsius, while cooler material looks dark as it absorbs radiation. 

This video was recorded on 27 September 2023 by the Extreme Ultraviolet Imager (EUI) instrument on Solar Orbiter. At the time, the spacecraft was at roughly a third of the Earth’s distance from the Sun, heading for a closest approach of 43 million km on 7 October.

On the same day that this video was recorded, NASA’s Parker Solar Probe skimmed just 7.26 million km from the solar surface. Rather than directly imaging the Sun, Parker measures particles and the magnetic field in the Sun’s corona and in the solar wind. This was a perfect opportunity for the two missions to team up, with ESA-led Solar Orbiter’s remote-sensing instruments observing the source region of the solar wind that would subsequently flow past Parker Solar Probe.

Spot the moss, spicules, eruption and rain

Lower left corner: An intriguing feature visible throughout this movie is the bright gas that makes delicate, lace-like patterns across the Sun. This is called coronal ‘moss’. It usually appears around the base of large coronal loops that are too hot or too tenuous to be seen with the chosen instrument settings.

On the solar horizon: Spires of gas, known as spicules, reach up from the Sun’s chromosphere. These can reach up to a height of 10 000 km.

Centre around 0:22: A small eruption in the centre of the field of view, with cooler material being lifted upwards before mostly falling back down. Don’t be fooled by the use of ‘small’ here: this eruption is bigger than Earth!

Centre-left around 0:30: ‘Cool’ coronal rain (probably less than 10 000 °C) looks dark against the bright background of large coronal loops (around one million degrees). The rain is made of higher-density clumps of plasma that fall back towards the Sun under the influence of gravity.
-----------------------

News Articles 1:

Video of sun’s surface shows solar rain, eruptions and coronal moss
Ethereal scenes of flowing super-heated material may help explain why atmosphere is hotter than surface

The sun’s otherworldly landscape, including coronal moss, solar rain and 6,000-mile-tall spires of gas, is revealed in footage from the Solar Orbiter spacecraft.

The observations, beamed back by the European Space Agency probe, reveal feathery, hair-like structures made of plasma and also capture eruptions and showers of relatively cooler material falling to the surface.

Scientists say the observations of the sun’s complex surface dynamics could help resolve the question of why the sun’s atmosphere is so much hotter than its surface – a longstanding paradox in solar physics.

The brightest regions are about 1,000,000C, while cooler material, which dips below 10,000C, appears darker. The footage was recorded on 27 September 2023 by the Extreme-Ultraviolet Imager (EUI) instrument, when the spacecraft was roughly a third of the Earth’s distance from the sun.

The annotated video highlights delicate lace-like patterns across the sun, which is called coronal moss. These structures appear around the base of large coronal magnetic field loops. On the horizon, spires of gas, known as spicules, reach up from the sun’s chromosphere to heights of about 6,000 miles (10,000km).

In the centre of the field of view, a small eruption is visible, with cooler material being lifted upwards before mostly falling back down. Although small relative to the largest events, this eruption is still larger than Earth.

The footage also reveals coronal rain, which at less than 10,000C looks dark against the bright background of large coronal loops (about 1,000,000C). The rain is made of higher-density clumps of plasma that fall back towards the sun under the influence of gravity.

Nasa images show ‘amazing’ solar flare that caused radio interference on Earth
Read more
“It’s really gorgeous when you see it happening,” said Dr David Long, a solar physicist at Dublin City University and Solar Orbiter scientist. “It kind of comes and goes – you see showers of it around solar flares.”

The observations could help explain why, at more than 1,000,000C, the sun’s outer atmosphere (known as the corona) is more than 150 times hotter than its surface.

The corona would be expected to be cooler because the sun’s energy comes from the nuclear furnace in its core, and things naturally get cooler the further away they are from a heat source. One explanation is that miniature flares, called campfires, are pumping energy into the atmosphere to cause causing coronal heating.

“It’s still a bit of an open question,” said Long. “These campfires that Orbiter observed for the first time are just going off constantly.

“It’s working out how much energy they’re producing and whether it’s enough to heat the atmosphere to what we’re seeing. It’s the combination of all these different features.”

The $1.3bn (£1bn) mission was launched in 2020 and next year will begin to climb out of the planetary plane to provide the first glimpses of the sun’s uncharted north and south poles.

------
News Articles 1:

Solar Orbiter shows the “fluffy” surface of the Sun in exquisite detail: Video

The European Space Agency (ESA) has released a new video made by the Solar Orbiter spacecraft, which allows us to take a close look at the corona of the Sun in detail. The video shows the transition of the lower layers of the Sun’s atmosphere to the outer corona, which is much hotter. 

The ESA describes the hair-like structure of the lower atmosphere as “fluffy”, although it has little in common with real hair: it consists of a charged gas (plasma), and the bright areas that look white in the video have a temperature of about a million degrees Celsius.

Although the video has only been posted today, it was actually filmed last year.

“This video was recorded on 27 September 2023 by the Extreme Ultraviolet Imager (EUI) instrument on Solar Orbiter. At the time, the spacecraft was at roughly a third of the Earth’s distance from the Sun, heading for a closest approach of 43 million km on 7 October,” the ESA explains.

There are several places in the 47-second video that are worth paying attention to. For example, in the lower left corner there is an excellent example of the so–called coronal ‘moss’, which is a lace structure created by plasma. This feature is usually observed around the base of large coronal loops that are too hot and too weak to be seen without special instruments.

Fluffy corona of the Sun in exquisite details. Photo: ESA
In the direction of the solar horizon, there are so-called spicules that rise to the chromosphere of the Sun and can reach 10,000 km in height.

At the 22nd second of the video, a small eruption can be seen in the center of the frame. It may look small in the video, but this single explosion is larger than the Earth. Finally, after 30 seconds, the so-called coronal rain is noticeable in the center left of the frame, which is “cold” by solar standards – less than 10 thousand degrees Celsius. ESA claims that it consists of higher density plasma clumps that fall on the Sun under the influence of its gravity.

September 27 was an eventful day for observing the Sun. On the same day, NASA’s Parker probe approached the Sun at a very close distance of 7.26 million km and measured particles and the magnetic field in the solar corona, as well as measured the solar wind.

-----
News Articles 2:

New Close-Up Video Shows Sun’s ‘Fluffy’ Corona in Extreme Detail

The European Space Agency (ESA) published a new video captured from its Solar Orbiter that provides an up-close, detailed look at the Sun’s corona.

The video shows the transition of the Sun’s lower atmosphere to the outer corona, which is much hotter. The ESA describes the “hair-like” structure of the lower atmosphere as “fluffy,” although they have little in common with actual hair: they’re made up of charged gas (plasma) and the bright areas that appear as white in the video are around one million degrees Celsius.

While the video was only shared today, it was actually captured last year.

“This video was recorded on September 27, 2023, by the Extreme Ultraviolet Imager (EUI) instrument on Solar Orbiter. At the time, the spacecraft was at roughly a third of the Earth’s distance from the Sun, heading for a closest approach of 43 million km on October 7,” the ESA explains.

The 47-second video clip has a few spots worth taking a closer look at. In the lower left-hand corner, for example, is a great example of what is known as “coronal moss,” which is the lace-like structure created by bright hot gas. This feature, the ESA explains, is usually seen around the base of large coronal loops that are too hot or too slight to be seen without specific instruments.

Looking up towards the solar horizon are what are called spicules, or spires of gas, which reach up and out into the Sun’s chromosphere and can get as tall as 10,000 kilometers high.

22 seconds into the clip, a small eruption can be seen in the center of the frame. It may look small in the video, but this single explosion is larger than Earth.

Finally, 30 seconds in, what is known as coronal rain is visible to the center-left in the frame, which is “cool” by Sun standards at likely less than 10,000 degrees Celsius. The ESA says that it is made of higher-density clumps of plasma that fall back into the sun due to its gravity.

September 27 was a busy day for Sun observation. The ESA says that the same day it captured this footage, NASA’s Parker Solar Probe came extremely close to the sun — 7.26 million kilometers — where it measured particles and the magnetic field in the Sun’s corona as well as took measurements of the solar wind.

“This was a perfect opportunity for the two missions to team up, with ESA-led Solar Orbiter’s remote-sensing instruments observing the source region of the solar wind that would subsequently flow past Parker Solar Probe,” the ESA says.

-----
News Articles 3:

Rain and fluffy surface: Sun atmosphere detailed video revealed

Rain and fluffy surface: Sun atmosphere detailed video revealed
Solar Orbiter shows the fluffy surface of the Sun in exquisite detail (illustrative photo: Unsplash)
The European Space Agency has published a short but fascinating video shot by the Solar Orbiter probe, which studies the Sun, including observations of processes in its atmosphere in unique detail.

In September 2023, a video was created using the Extreme Ultraviolet Imager (EUI) camera, which operates in the extreme ultraviolet range, invisible to the human eye. It allows you to observe the processes occurring in the Sun's atmosphere in high detail.

Discovery
The video shows the boundary between the super-hot outer atmosphere (solar corona) and the lower layers. The brightest areas have temperatures of up to a million degrees Celsius, while cooler areas appear darker. At the time of the shooting, the Solar Orbiter probe was at a distance of about 50 million kilometers from the Sun.

In the video, you can see several interesting structures. In the lower-left corner, coronal moss is visible throughout the video, which usually appears at the base of large coronal loops that are too thin to be seen with the EUI instrument.

On the horizon, you can see spicules - gas columns rising from the Sun's chromosphere along the magnetic field lines. Their height reaches 10 thousand kilometers.

At the 22nd second, a fluffy wave of plasma can be seen rising, after which most of the ejected material returns. This imaginary miniature curl is larger than the Earth.

At the 30-second mark to the left of the center, at a slightly higher altitude, dark structures known as coronal rain are visible-cooled plasma with temperatures up to 10 thousand degrees Celsius, which sinks to the surface of the Sun under the influence of gravity.

-----
News Articles 4:

Ever wondered what the Sun's surface looks like? New video gives closer look
A "small" eruption that occurs in the video is actually bigger than Earth. 

A new video from the European Space Agency shows the Sun's surface in terrifying new detail. 

A newly released video from the European Space Agency (ESA) is giving space enthusiasts some of the closest, most detailed views of the Sun yet. Filmed on Sept. 27, 2023 by the Extreme Ultraviolet Imager (EUI) instrument on the ESA's Solar Orbiter, the near-one-minute-long clip captures the ever-changing, fluffy-looking landscape of our home star. 

Shown in the video are feathery, hair-like structures made of plasma following magnetic field lines emerging from the Sun's lower atmosphere and transitioning into the much hotter outer corona. Other intriguing features depicted include coronal moss, spicules, and coronal rain. The brightest regions on the surface are around one million degrees Celsius, while cooler material looks dark as it absorbs radiation, the ESA explained in statement.

In the lower left corner of the video, coronal moss appears as delicate, lacy patterns, usually around the base of large coronal loops that can't be seen under the instrument's current settings, the ESA said. Along the solar horizon you can find spicules, which are tall spires of gas seen along the solar horizon that reach up to about 6,214 miles from the Sun's chromosphere. Coronal rain, which is cooler than other surface features and is made of high-density clumps of plasma that fall back towards the Sun due to gravity, are shown in the center-left.

At the 20-second mark of the video, what appears to be a "small" eruption occurs in the center of the field view. But don't be fooled: The eruption is actually bigger than Earth. At the time of the recording, Solar Orbiter was about a third of the distance between the Earth and the Sun. However, the spacecraft is en route to make an even closer flyby of the star in October. 
